[Music]
[Applause]
so that was a last November into
December here in this room and at two
other venues it was called the theme of
the festival was transmissions from the
seismic station Herrmann Coggan had a
piece called seismic and aftershock and
then we worked with other artists when
we brought in a giant Myer system into
this room where whose speakers can start
the low-end speakers and start 30 Hertz
and go down because you know you need to
create a seismic situation in this room
as well as we can so for those of you
who saw that we've been to the site and
so forth that's some of you are familiar
with that but anyway it was quite an
undertaking and it involved three venues
and also another venue we had to replace
the electricity in here and another
venue where we had 50,000 watts of
lights and all this hallucinogenic stuff
happening down the street and Shotwell
and then we also did the lab with
semiconductor for a whole geological
thing so some of the pieces were all
tied in also we had some performances at
Asia Devi who played along with Hiro
Connie and drew McDowell who did a piece
with with coil called time machines and
also some stuff from his solo record so
recombinant media labs has a device
called the Senate chamber in there and
probably some of you who have come in
2016-2017 various editions of festival
but as he as a variation of what you
might be seeing with the hexa dome this
is ten screens and multiple speakers
this
system all put in there for about 135
people who come in go up the platform be
inside the Senate chamber this is toured
all over Europe and Canada and so forth
I'll get into that in a second let's
move on so this is a kind of an
Operations report on what recombinant
media Labs is doing right now and
basically there's a couple of artists
I'm just giving you a highlights of
what's planned for mid-november between
the 14 to 16 there's cards out in the
lobby if you want to just take home a
reminder something like that but anyway
the total ants what is an anthropology
monoid post club machine music of
shanghaied artists and producers from
China so we always bring in and most of
these shows bringing a lot of folks from
Europe but this time we're really
focusing in on some more appearances
from folks over in Asia who are
experimenting in their own ways so this
is 33 en y BW but we call her 33 and her
partner goose who are going to do
separate and combined performances here
in mid-november here they are and their
head well head cleaners but in in China
so this is uh some graphics from what 33
is doing and she has quite a variety of
different looks fashion you know all
these kinds of things but when she gets
here on stage she's gonna pound it and
bring up all these variations which have
an audio-visual presence so I highly
recommend that you want to see something
exotic and strange again in this place
so another person on the well people on
the next edition of recombinant is
Morton subbotnik one of the pioneers of
electronic music since the mid 60's
there is a San Francisco tape Center and
all that and it was a central figure on
that and he's going to be doing a
personal piece he's 80
okay he's been doing this stuff two
years ago I did 22 performances around
the world he if we can all be that good
at 86 we're gonna be doing well anyway
he's gonna be here live on this stage
playing with relevant who is a Berlin
visual artist who also works with other
groups but they've been they were here
before for the dawn Buchla memorial that
we through here in April of 2017
Alessandro Kartini Susanne Shani who's
gonna be there tonight at pier 717 we're
all involved in this we have 40 people
over two days just to give don buco
could send off you know say hey man
enjoyed your inventions or the booth of
synthesizers kind of the west coast is
on the on the east coast or is Robert
Moog and they were all friends all been
pushing for it on the same technology
back in the day so his new piece
brand-new for the u.s. because he's
gonna try it out a little bit and then
bring it directly over here so this will
be the American premiere of as I live
and breathe so that's something I'm very
curious about and also for those of you
who might remember and this is why we go
to our next slide see there's Don Buchla
together for one of the last times they
ever were together here in the Bay Area
because Don goofy lived over in East Bay
so what the other piece that Martin's
can do is from the one of the first
electronic albums release in the mid 60s
so he's 66 67 68 and this is on the
Nonsuch label and then he moved over to
CBS Silver Apples of the Moon I think
many of you here probably know these
titles or it's in there in deep in the
recesses of mine somewhere so he's gonna
be on stage with Lil 'van who's a visual
artist I told you about from Berlin and
here's Martin who's gonna do double
quadrophonic in this room he likes to
work with two sound systems that are
both quiet and kind of combine them up
so the other thing we have signed up
this they're going to be two nights of
performances with a couple of people I
just mentioned but also we have a night
of cinema on the 14th so it's just
setting up
giant screen on the other side of the
room and we have got a California
premiere up where does a body end which
is a documentary on the band swans and I
don't know if all of you seen the Swans
but it's one of the great experiences of
well as as this rap indicates the savage
and tender extremes of swans told with
unprecedented access to archive material
in the interview spanning last 35 years
created by marco poor Zia okay
so from its inception as a New York City
noise cauldron to the current maelstroms
a perpetual intense focused groove swans
have not only survived the music
industry but they have transcended their
history by consistently delving into new
and fresh musical territory few ever
experiences one of the few bands that
I've ever seen with it's kind of you
know rock band lineup you know there's
some organs and electrons stuck in there
- along with percussion who can after
three and a half hours and not everyone
might be able to sustain that long but
playing three and a half hours it's a
long time for anybody
I mean after 20 minutes I'm already done
with most bands but if they can sustain
this this motion this sound wave this
whole thing then swans are one of the
most capable and in dark bands in this
Karen in this category so of course
we're interested in showing a premiere
here and in addition to that there's
many outtakes up some of their live
material which had another point in the
evening along with other films by other
artists that we're going to present we
it's almost like a audio-visual concert
you can see them just doing straight
songs the main documentary itself is a
lot of interviews a lot of talking about
the philosophy of the band since the
inception when I first saw them here at
the Mabuhay Gardens back in 1984 so here
are the swans a bunch of ruffians here
this is michael gira who the film
somewhat focuses on who's the lead
singer and kind of dictator of the group
but for good reason and they've been
through many different
lineups and so forth and this is jarba
now Jarboe was with a group from the 80s
and the 90s into the 2000s and she was a
very key component I was very pleased
after seeing just some rushes of the
movie how much they they really went
from her point of view in terms of what
she was doing with the band doing solo
vocals and really expressing yourself in
different ways under this powerhouse
savagery I first saw him at the map I
didn't know who it was and I was mixing
the opening band and then the curtain
opens and there's Jerry couldn't even
see his head standing on a table with a
shirt off and the sound wave just went
over the crowd just engulfed everything
so this is norm West Berg who also
perhaps be a visitor here in the Bay
Area who's been with the band off and on
since their inception okay let's see
what this means
okay this is Vicki Bennett from people
like us sound yes
ever
that's Senate chamber it was here a few
years ago in a preliminary edition this
is a full hour edition so as a closer it
takes hours to go through all the years
we I've been doing this stuff in the
California Bay Area since 50 years ago
1969 what was this place like that
certain technological art court that it
is now that's for sure
so on the 50th anniversary we're going
to be doing dancing on dead Rock which
is a myth a Festo tales of sensorial
engulfment by myself in Teatro contraire
who I worked with it's a time that'll be
on Day of the Dead Friday November 1st
2019 and just look at recallnet festival
calm there'll be details of where it is
and all this kind of stuff we do and
have done for years experiments in
extreme experiential engulfment okay and
this is 50 years ago we were looking for
black boxes and then we filled them up
with people in dark rooms we didn't want
to do like shows right and then people
couldn't find and we fill up the whole
room with gravel and all that the
audience comes in doesn't know what's
going on and you know today they say hey
you can't do that there's exercise so
anyway this is dancing a dead Rock which
I'll describe in more detail then
because we only have three more minutes
I'm on the clock here so we've done many
different things there's a whole story
of this we did it here in Seattle and
and you want some extreme danger and
risk and all the wrong things to do in
the right places then there's more tales
to follow this is crash program where we
put the audience inside of packing
crates until the big factory and put
them through you know conveyor belts and
all that and with nail guns and you can
just you know put them in there and all
that and and so you got the experience
of the audience being pushed through a
factory and you know you were inside
there and yeah they would see these
smudger e-2 these portals they're
they're all smudge you couldn't see out
of them very well
so yeah you were the in the container
being moved through and then taken out
on on a van out to a whole other place
so then we did you know mobilization and
transport events putting awnings on
buses and boats and 12 hours long crazy
stuff in there all kinds of you know if
you want to call it immersive or
whatever so now I'm gonna close okay now
you have a little treat because some
people they've some of the people up
here I've heard these stories but here's
a clip that even my good friends haven't
seen about a project that we remain I'm
gonna close out with this from 1971 and
you're gonna see me and it's weird
there's no sound on it so I'm going to
talk over it okay so let's see there it
is can you guys see that oh sorry thank
you sorry that's me in 71 a California's
to the arts and so we wanted to make an
immersive project called [__] destiny
okay so that's we went into the the
garbage bins of down in California and I
found an iron lawn where they used to
put people in during the 50s is that
polio
but how about making the I long a
sensory deprivation chamber so you're in
water you know like they do with John
Lilly and all the things over the
decades and you're sitting there and
then there's those old 1950s television
sets you know the big ones they used to
have you know with a little portal in it
and all that kind of stuff and that goes
over your head hey sounds like VR or
whatever right so your head is
completely immersed in total media and
your body is all you know from the neck
on down all you know floating in this
nice liquid essence of the time and you
can see inside the the iron lung and we
excavated it we were welding it out so I
was working with a with a guy who could
put this all together so anyway that was
one our projects that we were going to
put inside a crater and let's see is
this then so this was the lot this is an
event that we did where we put tree
stumps all the way around the perimeter
and this is an event where the audience
wasn't allowed to attend right kept them
out and the minute you keep everybody
out they all want to get in they want to
find out what's going on because this is
a 600 out of 6 you know six months I
forget 6000 our mining project so if
people came up from the campus and up to
the strange tennis court and he'd hear
all these weird sounds and all these
weird things going on they'd go what the
hell is going on here please get off the
property
this is Californians to you through to
the odd CIA you know you're under
surveillance get out of here and then at
the end of the year you reveal your
project which was the iron lung idea etc
etc anyway there's way more stories I
gotta go but if you're all interested
pick up these up you know these
postcards out there and we'll get set
for another November romp and if
anyone's interested in helping us out
with recombinant media labs and all that
you know get a hold of me and we'll talk
and you know come up with all kinds of
strange stories thank you
[Applause]
[Music]